# Git 101 (very very basics)

## Requirements

`git` is included in the Ubuntu WSL that we are using. However, we will need to install the GitHub Cli for this session. Follow the installation instructions [in this guide](./gh_setup.md). 

## Create a repository in Github website

It's pretty intuitive but instructions are also available [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo).

## Basic operations (using simple words)

- clone: Creates a copy of the repository in your computer.

`gh repo clone owner_github_id/repo_name`

You can also use `git` command but you need to setup a token in your computer:

`git clone repo_url`

- pull: Downloads the latest changes into your local computer

`git pull`

- status: View the actual status of the files (which ones were modified or added)

`git status`

- commit: Get your changes ready and attaches a message describing what has been done.

`git commit -am "A message"`

- add: Records an instruction to add all the new files created so they are included when you send your changes to the remote repository.

`git add .`

- push: Send the changes to the remote repository.

`git push`

- fork: Forking a repo creates a copy of a repository and allows you to experiment with changes without affecting the real project.

[Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)

- Pull request (from a fork): It allows you to propose changes you've to a fork, into the original repo.

[Pull request from a fork](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)

- Issues: You can create an issue about a bug or new feature that you think should be included so owner's (and the community) can take care of it.

[Issues](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/about-issues)
